Competition

Many different media tracking products exists as of today, some which are called GoodReads, Trakt, and Last.fm all which are Web Apps themselves. We will present a brief summary of each of these media tracking products and explain how our project is different and better. 

GoodReads is a book tracking Web App that enables users to track what they have read and to add books to their wishlist. Users of GoodReads can read/leave reviews on books. They can follow what their friends read and get recommendations based on them or from what they have read before. More information on GoodReads: http://www.goodreads.com/ 

Trakt is a TV/Movie tracking Web App that displays all popular/most played movies and television shows and allows users to create their own profile with what they have seen and what they want to see. Users of Trakt can view a calendar that contain a schedule of what is currently on the air. Users are also able to track their progress in television series and form their own lists and ratings. More information on Trakt: http://trakt.tv/ 

Last.fm is a music tracking Web App that uses Spotify to track music. Each user can create their own profile with their most popular tracks/artists/albums. They are able to view information on each song such as the total number of plays. Users can create their own custom playlists and share it with their followers. As well, users can comment on artists/albums as well as send messages to other users. More information on Last.fm: http://www.last.fm/
 
All of these products including ours have the following basic features: basic login to a personalized profile, tracking previously seen media, adding media to some list for later viewing, discovering recommendations from the database, and commenting/rating media items. All of these listed features will be part of our MVP.

Our product is different because we track multiple media types including books, music, television shows, and movies. Our product will be very minimal in the sense that it is very simple to use and to navigate. We will display the core information for each media type while keeping everything simple.

Our Media Tracker is better for users that enjoy media that is currently not mainstream, allowing them to create custom lists to support their needs. Our product will prioritize customizability. User’s who enjoy media such as anime, manga, foreign music, or such media types will be supported in our product. Our product is aimed towards all users of media, including the minority of people who enjoy non-mainstream media. Competitors did not focus on these type of users because the users are not a majority and they do not really matter to them when they are making money. But, for us, everyone should be able to track what they enjoy. If competitors included these users, it would cost them more money to support the tracking of non-mainstream media at the level of their product.

Let us present a key scenario in which our product does better than the competitors. Stephen Tang -- A 20 year old university student in the university’s anime club who enjoys watching anime, wants to discover similar anime series that his clubmates watch. Stephen suggests using a competitive product Trakt.tv, but their product does not support the needs of Stephen nor the club. However, our Media Tracker allows Stephen and the club to customize their anime needs. From all the clubmates generated lists, Stephen is able to discover new anime that he will enjoy.
