Process

Our group was organized fairly easily as each of the members had met each other from previous computer science courses such as CSC207 and CSC209. Aside from meeting one another in previous courses, every member is in the same lecture section for this course, thus there was no need to use a tool to form a group.

Since every member in the group are in the same lecture section, it was possible to discuss certain ideas for the project in/after lecture. We formed a Skype group with all of the members in order to easily communicate with the entire group, as it was difficult to always meet in person due to everyone’s schedule and inability to meet due to coursework, etc. The Skype group was where we made all of our decisions regarding the project. We had conference calls and chats to discuss what we should include in the project, giving everyone a chance to share their ideas and to give input so we could decide together what features were important to include in the product, and what was not. During the calls, we used an online notebook to brainstorm product ideas, features, and mockups of the app. Overall, each week we met roughly 1-2 times in person, and about 3 times online.

We want to include features into our application that we know that the majority of users will need and will find useful. We decided on defining the priority as the frequently occurring needs/features requested in our user stories. Of course however, there are many different requests/needs a user may have, but others may not have. If we come across a need that doesn’t have a high priority, or if we feel that it meets our core values to the application, it may very well be added as a feature if we have achieve previous goals and have time to implement the feature correctly. Based on how we are evaluating priority, we can ensure that we’re spending time focusing on the right features, thus leading to satisfied users.

What we took from this phase was completely understanding the end product. That meant knowing which features it was possible to include in the given time frame, the constraints as to which project idea was realistically possible to produce, the platform we would develop on, and most importantly, understand how to build the application. Some lessons we will take forward to phase 2 include focusing solely on the developing the MVP correctly until we are in a good state to implement more features, getting a jump start on web development, and creating a good storyboard to ensure that we have an intuitive and easy to use user interface. 
